[Music]
welcome to b2b marketing and more with
your host Pam dinner as leading
marketing and sales enablement
strategist keynote speaker and author
Pam created this podcast to share of
professional experience and insights and
help you to be a great fee to be
marketer you enjoy the podcast please
share it with your colleagues and leave
a review on iTunes now let's get started
[Music]
hi everyone thank you so much for tuning
in to my podcast today I want to talk
about the process of creating a
messaging framework messaging and
positioning are the most underrated
tasks in marketing worse crafting
messaging is just not as much fun as
creative development storytelling or
content creation I know I completely
understand but messaging is so crucial
and vital and you serves as a foundation
for external communications and internal
sales training so what is a messaging
framework anyway a messaging framework
is a logical and structure
representation of your products and
services unique promises and
differentiation it is an essential
document to guide creation or creative
briefs content and sales training so if
a messaging is done right it provides
strategic guidance and consistency to PR
external marketing communications sales
and can even be used as internal sales
and employees training so as boring as
it may sound I absolutely love creating
messaging frameworks for clients so here
are the steps I usually take to create a
solid messaging framework so step number
one engage with your product team you
need to engage your product teams and
subject matter experts to have them
explain key features of the new way
existing products to you most of the
time product managers or engineers can
explain the technical features
incredibly well but is a marketers job
translate that to benefits that in user
can relate yeah step number two drive
the messaging using a template and vet
it out with your product team once you
create a draft of the messaging
framework you need to vet it with your
product team to make sure that features
and benefits are presented accurately by
the way you can download my templates
I'm gonna show you how to do that later
and bear in mind messaging is not
copywriting essentially messaging is the
prelude to content creation copywriting
and the storytelling the messaging
framework provides guidance for content
creators copywriters and designers
therefore the messaging framework needs
to present features and benefit
accurately so that the writers can
sprinkle their magic on the content to
create the final masterpiece this is
especially true in P to B marketing
giving that key content pieces may also
need legal approval step number three
test with yourselves and the customers
after several rounds of revision working
with the product teams and subject
matter experts you'll need to test the
latest messaging framework with your
sales team and get their feedback if you
have the budget you can also test the
messaging with select customers or using
ap testings online bringing your sales
and customer feedback into conversation
will validate what messaging pillars or
statements work better and further
refine your messaging step number four
finalized and approved by the product
team and legal the last step is to
finalize your messaging framework based
on data from testing sales and the
product team in b2b marketing and
technology sales you may use benchmark
in the performance data to support your
claims
therefore legal review is in seneschal
in some cases it's critical before you
publish your messaging framework so for
me specifically working through the
process of reading product materials
interviewing subject matter experts and
researching keywords
actually helps me to connect the dots
with the key business objectives and
buyers persona it also helps me
understand the clients products more
deeply and another thing is I actually
can identify optimal words to use for
product differentiation the other
indirect benefit are expanding my
ability to position product in the
context of a sales and marketing
communication it also paves the way for
content strategy and editorial planning
if I do that part of work for my clients
so through the years working with my
clients I have created several
easy-to-follow and simple messaging
templates that my clients love to use to
briefly a sales team marketing teams and
agencies including content creators
copywriters media and the search
agencies so another thing I want to
share with you is the process of
developing a strategic messaging
framework is time consuming and lengthy
and you need to start the whole process
whole lot earlier if you know when your
product will be launched you literally
need to you need to spend probably doing
the messaging work three or four months
before the product is launched so I do
actually have a two popular templates I
want to share with you one is product
specific really one focuses on thought
leadership and the messaging hierarchy
is structured in a very logical manner
if you are interested in templates just
send me a Twitter message too at Pam
Bittner with full words semi messaging
framework
I will send you a link you know in my
future podcasts I will actually have
more templates to share with you so stay
tuned again
if you like what you hear please like or
subscribe my podcast I really appreciate
that if you have any questions please
send them my way let's continue to learn
from each other and have a great day
if you enjoyed this podcast we share it
with your colleagues and we review on
iTunes
[Music]